On behalf of the Trustees and the faculty of Columbia University, it is my very, very great pleasure and honor to welcome all of you to this ceremony to celebrate the graduation of the Class of 2015. Every year we gather in this magnificent academic forum, at this moment unmatched in beauty anywhere in the world, to affirm the extraordinary students and to reaffirm the intellectual bonds that connect us to those who have passed through these gates for 261 years and to those who will do so for centuries to come. Sixteen different schools are represented here today, along with our affiliate institutions of Teachers College and Barnard. In a time when life can seem increasingly fragmented and solitary and technological, this glorious ritual, in this utterly unique spot on the planet, seems all the more remarkable and thrilling.
This is a day that is all about the graduates and all about what you've earned -- earned through endless and mostly foggy hours of study; earned by overcoming again and again your natural inclination for binge-watching on Netflix -- or, more likely, earned in spite of not overcoming your natural inclination. Even with the relentless, round-the-clock distractions of a decent Wi-Fi signal, somehow papers were written, the presentations made, and the final exams taken. And apparently, you passed. So I give you approval to Tweet away. In an age of digital distraction, you kept your focus, and you have succeeded.
Now while this occasion is about you, there are a few people here today who have contributed mightily to your getting to this point in life and whom you'll never be able to thank enough. I can assure you that nothing focuses the mind like the successes and disappointments of one's own children. And, as much as we, your faculty, feel deep affection for you, nothing can compare to the pure adoration of your parents and families. Please, take this opportunity to thank them.
This morning I would like to offer you a few thoughts on how to assess your experience at Columbia, on why that experience is so special and rare in the world, on the grave threats that appear to place it in jeopardy, and on how despite those threats there are powerful forces bringing what I would call the Columbia experience to a broader humanity. At stake is something essential.
Let's begin with your experiences as students. Your time here, whatever your school or discipline, has been defined by two things: a mastery of a body of knowledge and an immersion in a way of thinking, one that favors an openness of mind within a framework of norms of reason, honesty, respect for fact, skepticism towards your own beliefs and those of others, respect for others, and -- most importantly -- a willingness to confront all beliefs and all ideas no matter how much you regard them as wrong, offensive, or dangerous. This is an academic realm, so there are particular standards critical to the enterprise you have completed and that we celebrate today. While no idea or thought is off limits for investigation and analysis, nor is this an intellectual free-for-all. Objecting to a low grade on First Amendment grounds that it somehow penalized you for expressing your ideas would not be a winning strategy, although I'm sure some of you considered it. But this is and will always be a place where your desire to know and your curiosity are unconstrained. Not coincidentally, you have had this experience in a nation that protects freedom of thought and expression more strongly than any nation on earth
and perhaps in history. Altogether, it is an extraordinary life experience, a privilege all too rare in the world and yet all too easy to take for granted. An ethical mind encased in a universe of freedom.
Indeed, even a passing glance at the reports of events around the world makes clear that this experience is both unusual and under siege. As governments perceive a loss of control, they become increasingly brazen in silencing critics. Democracies feeling vulnerable to terrorism expand surveillance and more freely seize suspects. Still far more alarming is the rise of a new authoritarian state. Turkey, Egypt, and other states dispatch journalists to jail, sometimes cavalierly decreeing death sentences. Russia has just legislated harsher penalties for those guilty of offending religious sensibilities; China employs vast numbers of people to monitor online activity and support government censorship; and nearly half of the world's nations punish blasphemy, often just a license to persecute aggressively those who disagree. The open architecture of the Internet is actively resisted, and Facebook, YouTube, and Twitter are banned as many nations try to foreclose access of and to their citizens. And non-state actors act as vigilantes, murdering and attacking speakers, as occurred notoriously in Paris but also in other places like the Philippines. It is a litany offering powerful evidence that the world is not headed towards openness.
But, considered from a different angle, and more broadly, there are many reasons for hope and optimism. Tremendous forces are working to protect and expand freedom of thought and expression. Just look at the gleaming airports that dot the globe, the satellite dishes that sit atop the world's homes, and the smartphones held in the hands of people everywhere. We are witnessing an unimaginable connectivity of individuals to knowledge and to other people. With some 2.7 billion people now online and the number rising, this is an incomprehensible phenomenon promising an Intellectual Revolution with an impact on human history of a scale equal to, and probably larger than, the Industrial Revolution. If you bring this new technology together with steady improvements in standards of living across the planet, including better health and education, the innate human yearning for openness is magnified. Market efficiencies, including privatization of industries, bring more information into the public sphere. And changes in our personal lives undergird a social and political demand for openness. Pity the state that tries to stand between a grandparent and his or her grandchild on FaceTime or Skype.
The rise of this level of human connectivity is not mere happenstance. We are now confronting a host of issues that demand an unprecedented sharing of information across national borders if they are to be solved: infectious disease, terrorism, environmental degradation, climate change, and movements of people around the world. Each of these problems fundamentally requires a global response. There are brewing crises that create an inexorable push towards more information and ultimately collective discussion and action.
To choose optimism over pessimism in this collision of competing forces for and against openness may seem naïve, but I think one can take some comfort in looking back to the experience of this country over the last century, when similar forces were in play and things evolved to where we are today.
It is not a widely appreciated fact that freedom of speech did not begin well in the early part of the 20th century in this country. The First World War and socialist and communist ideologies brought forth a level of intolerance in this country that sent hundreds of speakers to prison, including a candidate (Eugene Debs) for President of the United States, under notions of sedition that are strikingly out of line with today's sensibilities and jurisprudence. And the United States Supreme Court approved this massive tidal wave of censorship. Over the next several decades and into the 1950s, we saw an ebb and flow of censorship and protection. Individual states had their own views about defamation, hate speech, group libel, obscenity, and privacy. Arguments in favor of uninhibited free speech were usually rejected. And then, beginning in the second half of the 20th century, everything changed with a series of Court decisions that articulated and enforced the powerful commitment to free speech and openness that we live in today. What drove this change was not so much a shift in the Court, at least in my view, as a transformation of American society itself. With near-universal television ownership, a new communications technology that was inherently national had emerged. As well, levels of income and education were improving markedly. A new highway system and air travel network made interactions across the country easier. A booming national economy, urbanization, and most importantly a set of issues became national in scope: Civil Rights, discrimination against African Americans predominantly, but also environmental protection, criminal procedure, and equality, all became issues of the day. And all these forces together compelled the creation of a new standard for the exchange of information and ideas that would replace an anachronistic world of local censorship.
Now, to be optimistic does not mean there is not a lot of work ahead. And as you make your way in the wider world beyond Columbia, your recollection of the special and rare environment you inhabited here will be confronted with examples of censorship and repression that will test you in unfamiliar ways. The fact that the most significant of these assaults on free expression and robust debate can be expected to occur beyond the borders of the United States can offer no comfort to you, nor any excuse for passivity. For the global society we live in today is already a place where censorship anywhere is censorship everywhere. There simply will be no avoiding this reality or the call on your generation to come to grips with it.
At the heart of all this is the burden of articulating a theory and reality for why a good life consists in part, in having what you have had here at Columbia -- a freedom of mind and inquiry in an ethical community utterly dedicated to advancing human understanding and knowledge. Why should people want this? What can you say? That it fulfills what it means to be human? That it offers the best chance of truth? That it is necessary for innovation in an advanced economy? That it is the best way to govern? These or some of these nearly all of us here today believe. And that, of course, makes it easy to say. But we are a discrete community, and not everyone believes this. And, to be honest, none of these propositions has been proven in the manner of a scientific or mathematical truth. This can be frustrating and can provoke us, sometimes, to just insist on the correctness of these large ideas rather than talking about them patiently and trying to develop an explanation.
It is often said that the academic life is not a real life, and of course in a sense that's true. We do not exercise power over public issues, we do not legislate or direct. But we do live in a world of freedom of mind and expression, in the pursuit of truth, and that is as much a part of the real world as enacting laws or selling products. And it's not easy. It's difficult and it's counter-
intuitive. It's exhilarating and it's frustrating and it's hard work. You have experienced this part of life, and now it's up to you to give it a powerful voice and articulation for one of the greatest issues of the century: just how much freedom -- how much Columbia -- will the world have?
Let me say this to you, finally. You have made our work at Columbia a joy and a privilege. I feel -- and I hear this all the time from others -- every time I have the opportunity to interact with you, inside and outside the classroom, I feel how extraordinary you are and how proud you make us feel to be part of your educational adventure. And we envy the opportunities you will have to shape a world that has so much promise and potential.
Today we mark, and celebrate, what in all likelihood you will come to see as one of the defining experiences in your lives -- your years here at Columbia University. I hear this from alumni all the time -- how their experiences here were transformational. And if you don't already know this, quite a number of them also add how this is where they met their spouses -- their partners and best friends in life -- typically sitting right here on the steps of Low under the bewitching eye of alma mater.
I know this, too. My wife, Jean, and I arrived here, just married, in 1968. This is where and when we established our lives together, at Columbia and in New York City. I and we knew then that whatever happened to us afterwards, this time would be the gold thread that would most mark the pattern of our life. And it will be for you, too.
Congratulations, Class of 2015.